If we look at another example here,
you can run an entire ordering
system on serverless.
So Starbucks, for example, has a really
good web app and I think it's a,
what is it?
Order Starbucks?
Let's find it here,
is it delivery, I think
I can't remember what their online app is.
But so Starbucks has a web app that
actually the whole
website is a web app now.
But the ordering here, this is all
done through serverless functions.
When you when you add things
to your cart when you sign in.
When you manage this stuff, this is
all built on serverless functions and
that allows Starbucks to significantly
control their costs because
they know exactly how much
a function execution costs.
They don't have to keep thousands of
dollars worth of servers running to
make sure that they can handle
capacity instead, they know that
their average throughput is however
many people order through their website.
And they can estimate pretty
well what that's gonna cost.
And if they get a spike, they just
fire up more serverless instances,
it scales really well and helps them
control costs where they're not,
they don't have to keep a bunch
of hardware running just in case.
That is a really good solution and
a really powerful one.
Subway does the same thing,
Subway's ordering is powered
through serverless functions.
And so there are people that you can
talk to about that like on Twitter.
There are some of the Starbucks team,
I think David Brunel, let me find
David real quick because he run this,
and would be able to point you too,
if there are any case studies or if he had
questions about exactly how that works.
You could go find him and
he could probably point you
in the direction of how to learn more
about how this sort of thing works.
Then you could also run, I jumped two,
so we'll look at the first one here.
So subscription management.
You can do full fledged stripe
subscriptions through a service.
So let's look at the,
this is an example app.
I built a tutorial around this so
you might recognize the layout, but
if I log in.
And I think hope I use the same, yep.
Okay, good.
So I'm logged in and
I'm on the free tier here, right?
And so when I created my
account when I logged in,
there is a function that gets called
on signup, so identity sign up,
that's a special function that gets called
whenever identity events happen and
netlify kinda like a web hook,
and I'm able to go to stripe and
then I use FaunaDB on this one
which Fauna is another kind of like
database solution, it's GraphQL driven.
We used it in the intro to JAMstack
workshop on front end masters if you
want to see more of how that works.
And then in this handler, what we're doing
is we are creating a stripe customer.
So we just created a Netlify identity
you user, so we listen for that and
when they create their account,
we also create a stripe customer.
Then we dive into this subscription, and
we associate this customer
with a pricing plan.
And so the default pricing plan
is free at zero dollars a month,
you're just on a free subscription.
Then we go in and associate your Netlify
user ID with your stripe customer ID so
that we can check this later.
And we attach a role to
your account called free.
And so this is where this gets
really interesting, right?
So our app is able to assign roles to
our users based on certain information.
So in this case,
whenever you create an account,
you automatically get the free role.
But then if we go further, let's say
I want to manage my subscription.
So I'm gonna bounce over to
the stripe billing portal.
And it says I'm on the free plan.
So I'm gonna update this.
And let's say I want the premium plan.
I want all that Corgi goodness.
So I'm using a test credit card.
So I'm gonna confirm, update my plan.
It says I'm updated.
Okay, I'm happy.
So let's go back.
And now check that out.
I can see all the content,
I have a new role my role was updated, and
I'm able to see the content that was,
that was previously not available to me.
So if I go and look at what happened,
I have a handle subscription change.
So this is a serverless function that
stripe will call whenever you change your
subscription, it says
the user is a web hook.
And what I'm doing in here,
is I'm going in I'm validating
that it's a legit stripe call.
And then I pull up my Netlify User ID
based on the stripe customer ID.
And I update the role to include
whatever their the plan is.
So if I have the the premium plan,
we get the premium role.
And we add that to our roles here.
So we can update our user roles
based on third party actions.
The stripe subscription changes, stripe
tells my app that it has changed and
I'm able to update my users roles.
To include whatever access
they're supposed to have, and
that means that I'm able to see
premium content and if I go in and
change it again, I can go in and
update my plan to Pro, right?
And once I've updated my plan,
I go back I've now lost access to
the premium content,
I can only see the pro and free content.
So this is a really,
really powerful use of this,
where the code in this example and
by the way if you wanna,
there's a tutorial about this on, no.
[LAUGH] I guess the link change and
I need to fix that there is
a tutorial somewhere around here.
Hear that we'll walk you through how that
app that I just showed you is built,
going through all the setup and
the connection of stripe and everything.
But this is all built on again serverless
functions because it removes the need for
me to set up a whole bunch of long
running servers and setup all this stuff,
I'm able to just tell stripe, hey, when
something changes, call this function.
And then my function is just
the logic to manage the subscription.
And when it runs, it runs and
when it doesn't, it doesn't.
It doesn't cost me money to sit there.
It only cost me one me money when it runs
or in the case of the usage of this app,
it's free because I won't hit the limit
to actually start getting charged.
A kind of a galaxy brain
use of serverless functions
is this is something called
common crawler lambda.
And so, common crawl is a huge repository.
Let's pull this up actually and
look at it.
So common crawl is like search engine
crawling data for the whole internet,
where it pulls everything down and
creates this giant list of whatever.
You can just pull data from
the internet and analyze it.
This would be a great resource if you were
trying to get into machine learning and
you wanted to see lots and
lots of websites about a certain topic.
Or if you were trying to analyze
headlines and things like that,
you could do this is a great resource for
that.
But what this does is this uses Python and
serverless functions to basically let you
run grep against the entire internet,
which would be completely non starter if
you were trying to do this on a single
machine because there're billions
of pages on the internet.
But because you can spin this up across
tons and tons and tons of lambdas,
you can actually run this command
against subsets of the data and
do it in a reasonable amount of time.
So it's a very fascinating use, I don't
know, I haven't actually used this.
I've only seen people talk about it and
it kinda blew my mind.
But it's just such an interesting,
it shows you what's actually
possible when you start thinking
about the web in this way.
If you are familiar with David Wells,
David Wells used to work for
serverless which is a framework
around serverless functions,
and he has put together some
really amazing resources on how
serverless kind of works,
things you can do with it.
So some of the things that he mentions
are like, you could run software testing,
you could spin up, say like an integration
test through a tool like Cypress or
visual diffing through
tools like Applitools.
And you would be able to
then set each page or
subsections of your site to run
through a serverless function.
So that instead of having to run all of
the integration tests in one process,
each page gets tested by
one serverless function,
which means they run in parallel
instead of in sequence.
And so now you're doing a lot less work.
Image and video encoding and
analysis we talked about that
with the gatsby-parallel-runner.
Instead of doing your images, one after
the other, you do them all in parallel
each in a serverless function and
then you bring those results back.
If you were going to dig into things like
machine learning weekly look at that
common crawl lambda.
Data visualization would be another one if
you've got a huge, huge, huge dataset and
you need to do a lot of work on it,
instead of doing it one entry at a time,
you could do each entry
in its own lambda and
then smash those results
together at the end.
So so many things that you
can do with this, right?
It's kind of,
this is one of those things that it's
more limited to our imagination than
it is to the technical confines.
Because there's not really a,
there are I mean there
are always limits to everything.
But the the practical limits of like,
I can just spin up a 1000 or
10,000 serverless
functions to do some work.
Those are pretty,
like those limits are yeah,
you can do that you can
absolutely do that.
So it's more of like, all right,
how would I actually make this work?
How would I break this data up?
How would I send these off?
How would I reassemble
it once it gets done?
What do I do if something goes wrong,
if one of those functions fails, and
it wasn't supposed to.
There are things that you have
to build to make that function.
But ultimately,
the power here is incredible, right?
And any of that logic,
the retry logic and the failure catching,
it doesn't do that anyways in your server.
And the nice thing about this is you could
even thinking about that failure case.
If you're running the whole data
set as one long running process and
one of them fails,
it just is kinda like a flakiness thing,
not because it was actually wrong but
because the network hiccup or something.
You have to start the whole
process over again.
But if you're using serverless functions,
then you get a list of what failed and
you can retry just what failed, and
then plug that back into the data set.
That gives you even better resilience.
It gives you more options when
you're trying to recover from errors
that are just more difficult if you're
doing everything as a single process.